Class:
  A class is a group of objects which have common properties. It is a template or blueprint from which objects are created.
  It is a logical entity. It can't be physical.
 
A class in Java can contain:

  *Fields
  *Methods
  
Super power:
   -Without creating the class we can't able to create atleast a single variable.



   
Object:
  An entity that has state and behavior is known as an object e.g., bike, marker, table, car, etc. It can be physical or logical (tangible and intangible).
  The example of an intangible object is the banking system.
 
An object has three characteristics:
  State: represents the data (value) of an object.
  
  Behavior: represents the behavior (functionality) of an object such as deposit, withdraw, etc.
  
  Identity: An object identity is typically implemented via a unique ID. The value of the ID is not visible to the external user.
  However, it is used internally by the JVM to identify each object uniquely.
  
Super power:
  when the user creates the object,it will create constructor.Once we created object it automatically calls the constructor.




  
Constructor:
 *In Java,a constructor is a block of codes similar to the method. It is called when an instance of the class is created.
 *At the time of calling constructor, memory for the object is allocated in the memory.

 *It is a special type of method which is used to initialize the object.

 *Every time an object is created using the new() keyword, at least one constructor is called.
 
Types of constructor:
  1)Default constructor (no-arg constructor)
  2)Parameterized constructor

super power:
 Once we created object then the constructor is created automatically.




Static:

  The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly. We can apply static keyword with variables, methods, blocks and nested classes.
  The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class.

The static can be:

  Variable (also known as a class variable)
  Method (also known as a class method)
  Block
  Nested class

super power:
  User can able to call the class without creating the object.




This keyword:
  There can be a lot of usage of Java this keyword. In Java, this is a reference variable that refers to the current object.

1) this: to refer current class instance variable
 The this keyword can be used to refer current class instance variable.
 If there is ambiguity between the instance variables and parameters, this keyword resolves the problem of ambiguity.
